

TRAVIS B. HARTWELL


nafai@travishartwell.net
http://iam.travishartwell.net/
(801) 753-8626
Idaho Falls, Idaho


Skills Summary

-   Programming Languages
    -   _Experienced and Proficient_: Python, Java, Bash scripting, C,
        Emacs Lisp
    -   _Some experience_: Lua, SQL, Haskell, Common Lisp, Javascript,
        C++, Go, Erlang
-   GUI development
    -   _With Java_: SWT, Eclipse RCP, Swing
    -   _In Python, C, Haskell_: Gtk and Gnome
-   Network service development, particularly with Twisted in Python
-   HTML and CSS
-   System Administration
    -   Extensive admin of Debian and Ubuntu. (_primary personal
        operating system for fifteen years_)
    -   Debian packaging and some RPM packaging.
    -   NixOS packaging and administration.
    -   Some CentOS, RHEL, and Arch Linux admin and Linux administration
        in general.
    -   Docker use and Dockerfile creation
    -   Apache Mesos use and configuration
-   Extensive use and administration of git and Subversion.
-   Some use of bzr, CVS, hg, and darcs.


Professional Experience

Basho Technologies, remote

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES CONTRACTOR, _September 2015 to present_

-   Managed provisioning, configuring, and administering clusters
    running Mesos used by development teams for test and development
    using Ansible.
-   Added features to Riak Explorer, including Riak EE
    Replication support.
-   Added features and tests to the Riak Mesos Tools.
-   Fixed bugs in Go version of Riak Mesos Framework,
-   Wrote and executed formal test plans and reports for clients
    covering performance testing, operational testing, and
    scaling testing.

Independent Contractor, major clients and projects listed, primarily remote

_September 2006 to present_

-   BINARY COCOA, _December 2011 to September 2014_
    -   Wrote AI player for BOCO in Lua.
    -   Created Debian, Ubuntu, and Fedora packages for games for the
        Humble Bundle for Android, used by approximately
        50,000 customers.
-   LEADING 2 LEAN, _August 2011 to November 2011_
    -   Updated and improved site deployment scripts for deploying
        from git.
    -   Wrote web administrative interface for the deployment using
        Python and Django.
-   SEND OUT CARDS, _May 2011 to August 2011_
    -   Refactored, fixed bugs, and packaged software used to prepare
        all cards for printing (or _Pre-Press_).
    -   Studied Scala and the Lift web framework to contribute to web
        interface for Pre-Press.
    -   Supported team members in Linux and git use.
-   NETRADIUS, _intermittent, as needed, September 2006 to November
    2011_
    -   Developed build and deployment process improvements for client's
        Java desktop application. Also fixed bugs in data export portion
        of application.
    -   Implemented various JSP report screens and their back-end data
        objects for client web application.

Canonical USA, remote

DESKTOP SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, _February 2010 to May 2010_

-   Started as a contractor, hired as full-time employee before contract
    was up.
-   Added support to Gnome applications (brasero, gnome-bluetooth, vino,
    and Gnome Control Center) for Ubuntu's application indicators,
    working with upstream Gnome developers to get patches reviewed
    and accepted.
-   Tracked down reported application bugs by examining and fixing code
    from the application level through the Gnome stack including Gtk.
-   Fixed show-stopping CPU usage issue in Gwibber by changing how Gnome
    Keyring was used with threading.

Mozy, Pleasant Grove, Utah

SENIOR SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR, _November 2008 to October 2009_

-   Developed automation tools to manage thousands of heterogeneous
    Debian servers and associated hardware. Tools were primarily
    client-server software written with the Twisted Asynchronous Python
    Networking framework.
-   Administered thousands of Debian servers, as part of a team,
    handling day to day errors and maintenance as needed.

Feature 50, Draper, Utah

SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, _February 2008 to August 2008_

-   Cross-team support for a custom Java Swing grid component including:
    new features, bug fixes, and technical support.
-   Improved manual test suite harness for grid component enabling
    easier reproduction of bugs and scenarios of
    production environments.
-   Integrated support for generating editable JFormDesigner forms for
    dynamically generated Swing layouts.
-   Increased efficiency and reliability of a JMS-based monitoring
    dashboard application. Provided system administration support for
    same application.

21st Century Technologies, Austin, Texas

SOFTWARE ENGINEER, _May 2006 to February 2008_

-   Designed and developed general script execution system for the
    Lynxeon advanced analytics platform, integrating Jython and Enhydra
    Shark as execution engines. Wrote custom Jython import mechanism
    from JSR 170 content repository.
-   Set up Maven 2 builds and other automation for team projects,
    including Bamboo automated build server and scripting to set up
    local Maven 2 mirror.
-   Contributed compiler extensions for the Lynxeon Pattern Query
    Language to support new language constructs.
-   Wrote extension of Postgis extras Tiger geocoder for
    international cities.
-   Integrated uDig into Lynxeon Analyst Studio (an Eclipse RCP
    application), including custom data export dialogs and
    project synchronization.

Roxor Games, Austin, Texas

SYSTEMS ENGINEER, _May 2004 to May 2006_

-   Game Development Team Lead
    -   Lead development of Road Rebel arcade game implemented with the
        Torque Game Engine in C++ and Torque Script.
-   Factory Workflow Automation
    -   Increased factory production capacity 40 times through the
        design and implementation of a hardware and software system.
    -   Designed and implemented software tools used for monitoring,
        quality control, and shipping preparation of arcade units.


Open Source and Community Contributions

-   Creator and contributor to Nix Emacs.
-   Recent contributions of code, packages, and documentation to NixOS
    and Spacemacs.
-   Contributed support, bug fixes, and documentation for the
    Twisted Project.
-   All personal open source code and contributions can be found at
    http://www.github.com/travisbhartwell/ and
    http://gitlab.com/u/travisbhartwell.


Publications and Presentations

-   Presenting at Open West 2016, "Spacemacs: The Best of Both the Emacs
    and Vim Worlds."
-   Presented at PyCon DC 2004, “PyGtk and PyGnome Programming.”
-   Gave extended version of PyGtk presentation at the 3rd USU Free
    Software and Linux Forum.
-   Presented at PyCon DC 2003, “A Twisted Web Tutorial.”
-   Taught in-depth workshops, “Beginning Emacs Editor Usage” and
    “Beginning Python Programming.”
-   Gave various presentations, primarily around Python, at local
    user groups.
-   Published code in colleague Marc Anderson's Master's thesis,
    “Adapting Minimum Temperature Forecasts to Fruit Orchards in the
    Intermountain West.”


Education

Utah State University
Computer Science, Fall 2003
B.S., Science Emphasis with Mathematics minor
